So, we've covered the four challenges
that form the heart of this module.
The four challenges of dealing
with talent analytics and
drawing correct inferences from
the data that you're crunching.
We have one special topic, we wanna cover
before drop into the prescriptions.
The special topic is Test and
Algorithms, which are receiving
a great deal of attention lately.
So, for example,
the cover story on Time magazine
this summer was How High Is Your XQ?
And XQ is intended to be your
personality quotient, and
this comes from the rise
in firms promising to help
companies hire more effectively by
giving tests to the potential hires.
So, a real cottage industry has grown up
around this and it's related to big data.
It's related to the increase in
computing power and the quest,
the never-ending quest for
a better way to hire employees.
So, we're going to talk
about this separately.
Matthew's going to talk about this
separately in a hiring module, but
I want to say a quick few words about it,
especially because it's related to
other news that's been covered lately.
So, another front page story,
this time the New York Times, on can
an algorithm hire better than a human?
Again, something that's
arisen in recent years.
Fostering the people on the next
topic we're here talking about, but
a few comments on these very important and
relatively new topics.
The first is, let's understand
some of the pros and cons,
because there are pros undoubtedly,
but there are also cons.
So, clearly you can process more
efficiently through these test and
through these algorithms,
you can process many more candidates.
You can aggregate them much more easily
than doing so manually or intuitively.
So, processing efficiency is a plus,
so is broad search.
Because you've got this efficiency,
you can bring many more people
into the filter, into the funnel
that you're trying to process.
And this can be very helpful.
We, in general, think that people
search too narrowly, they're too
confident in being able to identify,
and so broad search is a good thing.
Finally, done well this is unbiased.
The machines that are programmed don't
have the kinds of biases we worry about.
Don't have the human kinds of stereotypes,
self-fulfilling issues that we talked
about in our previous segment.
Now, that's once their programmed.
The programming itself can be biased or
the historical data they're
based on can be biased.
But the machines themselves were unbiased.
And this can be a real advantage for us.
Downsides though, and this is important.
And this is what gets lost in
these glossy articles, or in so
many sales people pushing for
these new tools is that there's some cons.
One is they're hyper-focused.
These algorithms and
these tests will do exactly what they're
programmed to do and nothing else.
They don't have the sense to balance
it in the way that humans would, so
if you go out, and tell them you want X
they're gonna focus exclusively on X and
if you just forgot to
put Y in the algorithm,
you're not gonna get it, you're not
get any Y, it's gonna get exactly.
And this can be dangerous.
It can be very powerful, but
it can be very dangerous.
It's not that they don't work well enough,
the problem is they work too well.
And it's a very sharp tool for
us to be working with.
Second is most of these tools have
relatively low explanatory power.
Meaning, there might be a little signal,
they might be picking up on something.
But they're not in most cases explaining
a lot of the variance downstream.
They're not helping us really understand
that much of what's going on.
And so, we might draw on them, but you
don't wanna put too much weight on them,
if they're not really explaining
much of the downstream variance.
Some prescriptions that come from
using these because by all means we
need to be developing new ones,
we need to be trying to take advantage of
the ones that are good out there, but
they need to come with some prescriptions.
So, one, do the science,
do the rigorous testing and importantly,
identify what works best in your setting,
very few of these are general,
very few of these are tests or
algorithms that are gonna work everywhere.
Even something as fundamental as GPA,
you can think of it as an algorithm even
though it's been widely available for
a long time, even something like GPA can,
the applicability varies
across organizations.
I was at a conference a few months ago,
where someone from Google stood up and
said, we've crunched the numbers,
and we've established once and for
all that G.P.A. is not a valid predictor
for performance inside our firm.
Interesting, right?
Very interesting.
But, Goldman Sachs stands up and
says, we've crunched the numbers and
we've established definitively that G.P.A.
is a valid predictor for
performance inside our firm.
Same numbers, different environments,
different validity.
You've got to run the numbers
inside your organization and
take with a big grain of salt anything
that somebody tells you about
the generality of a particular task or
a particular algorithm.
Second is provide human oversight.
These are very sharp tools, and
they need to be carefully used.
And sadly,
I speak from experience in that, you could
design a very good algorithm, and then
once you start using it you start sawing
off edges of furniture here and there.
You need human oversight of this.
You need humans to be
the once programming.
You need humans testing these things,
very importantly,
you need humans error checking.
You gotta make sure that the output
on the other end makes sense and
broadly corroborates what you expect.
And until you've got a lot of
experience with a particular algorithm,
you've gotta be careful.
Finally, use multiple tools.
This is one of the best
prescriptions we can give.
It kind of licenses
sampling these new tools,
it licenses using them if used in
conjunction with many other tools.
So, by all means, take advantage of new
technology, bring the new test in, drop
them into the, see what they relate to,
just don't put too much stock in any one
of them, any one test or any one algorithm
until you've really proven it up.
But really, in general, with performance
evaluation and talent evaluation,
we want as many diverse
signals as possible.
So, this is a great new role for us.
It brings in some new signals from some
new places and we want that diversity.
But it should only be a complement to
the other more traditional measures.